Good morning, everybody.
Welcome to AMP on Mac OS X.
Thank you for coming to
our session this morning.
I'm John Montbriand.
I work in the
Developer Technical Support Division at
Apple Computer.
I take care of the technical notes,
the sample code,
the Q&A collections on our website,
and a lot of these tools
I get to use during my job,
and I'll be talking to
you about them today.
This is Nathan Dentonfast.
He's graciously volunteered to come
and run the demos along with you.
There is going to be some
typing involved in this session,
and I'm going to watch Nathan as he
goes through to give you appropriate
time to do the things that you
need to do to accomplish the things
you need to do in this session.
And I'll use that as a
gauge for timing things.
So we're going to talk about today.
We're going to talk about Apache.
We're going to talk about MySQL, PHP,
and Tiger.
We're going to talk about
what we install by default.
On the client version of Tiger.
We're not going to talk about the
server version of Tiger today.
We're going to talk about extras
that you can install on your own,
and we're going to talk about
Apache, we're going to turn it on.
We're going to show you how to do that.
We're going to show you how to
edit the configuration for Apache.
Then we're going to show you how
to edit the configuration for PHP,
how to enable that.
And we have Marc Liyanage here.
And many of you may be
familiar with his website.
He has a lot of downloads, installers,
single clickable package installers
for the latest versions of PHP,
MySQL, and PostgreSQL.
He has some really exciting demos to
show you that we'll be showing you later.
And for the last hands-on part,
we're going to show you how to
set up several virtual hosts on
your own laptop computer for local
testing of websites and whatnot.
And we'll end off with some Q&A.
So in this session,
we're going to be using
these applications.
You don't have to be a real
expert in using Xcode to
follow along in this session.
We're just going to be
using it as a text editor.
And the hands-on parts are going
to be with these guided hands-on
slide sections like shown here.
And I'm going to step you
through the different commands
that we're going to do.
For example,
here we're saying open apple.com,
and then click on the
developer link in Safari.
Moving along,
the next thing I want to point
out is there are no downloadables
for this session in particular.
We don't have any sample code,
but we are going to talk about a lot of
different installers in this session.
And you'll probably be tempted
to download them right away,
but please be aware that if you download
them right away during this session,
you'll probably crash the network and
nobody will be able to use the network.
So please wait until after before
you download any installers.
So, what's installed on Mac OS X?
Apache 1.3.33.
We have PHP 4.3.1.
That's an older version,
but Marc Liyanage has an updater
for PHP 5.0 on his website.
He'll be demoing that later.
We have mod.php installed,
but it's not enabled in Apache.
We're going to show you how to turn on
mod.php later so you can have PHP running
on your computer in your Apache.
We have Perl 5.84.
Mod Perl is installed,
but you need to enable that specifically
in your HTTP configuration to use
it on your Apache on your local
machine if you want to use that.
Python 2.35 is installed.
Ruby is installed.
We have 1.81.
We have an update to
1.82 on Darwin Ports.
I'll be showing these links later on,
so don't worry about recording them now.
Now, the extras that you can
install on your machine.
We have MySQL.
Because we're talking
about the client OS,
we don't come with,
on the client version of
Mac OS Tiger with MySQL pre-installed.
This is something you'd go and install.
There are some really good installer
packages that you can just double-click
and run on the MySQL website.
There's one thing that
you'd want to be aware of.
If you want to try the latest
MySQL with the installed version of PHP,
it's not going to work.
So what you should probably do,
if you want to use the
installed version of PHP,
then use 4.0.
Because 4.1, there's a password hash
and compatibility issue.
But if you want to use the latest
version of PHP and the latest
version of MySQL... Of course,
you want to go to Mark's
website and use his installers.
PostgreSQL is another option.
There is an installer on Marc's site
that we'll be talking about later,
or he might mention.
If you're interested in upgrading
to a more complete version of SQL or
you're just interested in Postgre,
that's available for you.
So, this is the first hands-on part.
We're going to do Apache and Tiger,
give you a taste of what our
hands-on thing is going to be like.
First thing we're going to do
is we're going to try it out.
This is Apache's web server link,
and they have a whole
website set up there.
And let's turn on Apache.
First thing you need to do is go
to your system preferences control
panel and select the sharing icon.
So the first thing we do
is we select sharing and we
turn on personal web sharing.
This here turns on
Apache on your machine.
You don't have to do anything
else once you've done that.
As soon as you've turned on Apache,
you'll notice on the
bottom of the screen here,
it will show you your network
address for your Apache.
If you wanted to let somebody else on
the same network as you access the web
pages that you're hosting on your laptop,
say, you can give them these addresses
and they'll be able to browse your
web pages on your local machine.
So we've turned on Apache,
and Nathan's going to demo.
Can we switch over to demo one?
So here's turning on Apache and
in the system preferences.
So how's everybody doing with
our hands-on session so far?
Are we all okay?
So here's turning on Apache and
in the system preferences.
We're not going to actually use
the network during this session.
So we can switch back to slides.
Oh, if you can't see the
address on the bottom,
that's okay.
That's just because your
machine doesn't have a network
connection at the current time.
And what that will mean is you can
still use Apache on your machine.
It's up and running,
but you just can't use it on the network.
Once you're connected to a network,
that address will show up
and you can advertise that or
email it to people if you like.
So the next thing we're going
to do is we're going to talk
about the Apache Control.
The Apache Control command line
tool is the other way that you can
control Apache on your machine.
The statements I'm showing
here is Apache Control status.
You can try that in your
terminal program and that will
show you the status of Apache.
Or here's the man page.
You don't have to use
this command right now.
We'll be using this command later
in this presentation to show you
how to use it to restart Apache.
So let's try out Apache.
We just turned it on.
You can run it on your laptop
right now if you followed me in the
System Preferences Control Panel.
And we're going to switch over to Demo 1.
And we're going to browse local host.
So on your machine,
you'll find that we've already
preloaded Apache and we've
preloaded the documentation for
Apache in the local host address
and the default address for Apache.
So we can switch back to slides.
The next thing we're going to
do is we're going to take a look
at where the configuration files
for Apache are on your machine.
They're located in the directories
etc.httpd.http.configuration
and etc.httpd.
We also have, there's a group of
files that are browsed,
and we're going to take advantage
of this in the users directory
in the http configuration folder.
Now, if you wanted to take
a look at these files,
you could follow the hands-on
instructions I provided up here.
I'm not going to get
Nathan to do that today.
But you can open the etc.http directory.
Maybe I'll follow you
and you can do that.
[Transcript missing]
What did we do here?
We went through, we turned on Apache,
we located the configuration files,
we let you see where they are.
The next thing we're going to do
is we're going to turn on PHP.
So if you're browsing your local
web files on your computer,
you can use and run PHP programs in
your web pages running on your computer.
So the first thing we're going to do,
it's not turned on by default,
so we're going to have to go and
edit the HTTP configuration file.
So the first thing we're going
to do before we go and edit
the HTTP configuration file
is we're going to back it up.
And the steps below
show you how to do that.
You need to run these
in the terminal program.
And if you're typing along,
I'm following Nathan here,
and he's doing these commands here.
The first command will set the current
execution directory for running commands
to the HTTP configuration directory.
The second command here
is a pseudo command.
That means run this
command as system user.
And all we're going to do here is copy
the configuration file to a backup.
It's going to ask you for your system
password the first time through,
because this is a system user command.
You need to have system
permissions to run this command.
The second last command is we're going
to set the permissions so we can go in
and edit our HTTP configuration file.
Okay, moving along.
The next thing we're going
to do is we're going to edit
the HTTP configuration file.
So the first thing you do is you
type this command into the terminal.
What that's...
Okay, I'll slow down.
Sorry about that.
We can go back to that.
How about I give, if I go too fast,
just put up your hand
please for the typing,
and then I'll know.
He'll type a little slower.
Okay, so the next thing we're going
to do is we're going to edit
the HTTP configuration file.
The first thing we do is type
this command into the terminal.
What this is going to do is
it's going to tell the finder,
it's going to send an event over
to the finder asking it to open the
folder so we can look at all the icons
in the HTTP configuration folder.
The reason we're doing this in the
terminal is because normally this
folder is hidden from the user
to prevent unnecessary editing.
The next thing we're going to
do is we're going to switch over
to the finder and we're going to
look through the configuration
directory that we just opened.
And we're going to drag and drop the
HTTP configuration file into Xcode.
So everybody caught up
with the typing there?
We're going to use Xcode here,
and we've got a demo
set up for this part.
So let's switch over to demo one.
We're going to drag and drop.
OK, let's go over to the Finder.
You can use any text
editor you want here.
The main thing is it shouldn't
alter the line endings of the file.
If you make a mistake here, it's okay.
We've switched over to Xcode here.
You can see that there's a lot
of information in this file.
There's a lot of really valuable comments
that will explain different parts.
What we're looking for in
particular here is the lines
starting with the module PHP.
If you just search for the word PHP,
you'll find these lines.
We can switch back to slides.
So what we're going to do in that file
is we're going to find these lines.
And the first two lines here is load
module PHP 4 and the add module PHP 4.
All we're going to do here is
remove the little hash marks from
the beginning of those two lines.
And I'll watch Nathan here as he
goes through and scrolls through
manually and changes those.
Okay, and then the last thing
you do is save and close.
Everybody caught up with me there?
Go back here.
We're looking for... What we're
doing is we're turning on PHP.
We're enabling PHP in this section.
And all we're doing is we're
uncommenting these lines.
The first one, load module, PHP 4 module,
what that will do is
load the module into PHP.
You'll notice that there's separate
load modules and add modules.
The add module will actually
activate the module.
Once you've loaded the module,
it doesn't actually become active.
It's kind of inside of Apache until
you run the add module command.
So you can selectively turn it
on and off for different websites
on your machine if you like.
The next thing we're going to do is
we're going to activate the changes.
We just edited the configuration file,
saved it to disk, and closed it.
And the next thing we're going
to do is activate the changes.
So the first, the reason we need to,
we need to do this to,
we need to restart Apache.
We've changed the configuration file,
we need to force Apache to reload it.
So the first thing we're going
to do is we're going to set the,
in the terminal,
we're going to set the execution
directory for our commands to the
Apache configuration directory.
We can ask questions at the end.
We'll have time for Q&A then.
OK.
The next thing we're going to want
to do is we're going to set the
permissions back on the configuration
file to what they originally were.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so what did we just do?
We just turned on mod.php and we
edited the Apache configuration file
to enable that and we enabled PHP.
Our next section,
we're going to explore and
configure PHP in Tiger.
We're going to take a
look at what's installed.
We have 4.3.1.
They have their website on-- well,
that's their address up there.
Let's try it out.
If you want to try PHP in Tiger,
you can type in the commands above here.
If you've followed along so far,
we've turned on Apache,
we've turned on PHP.
The commands up here will allow you
to create your own document that we
can try out our PHP on our machine.
The first line here,
we're setting the execution directory
to the default configuration web
server directory on our machine.
The second line here,
we're writing out a PHP file.
It's a very simple program.
As you can see there,
we're just echoing to the
PHP in the current directory.
Our PHP program is actually this
center little section in here.
The next thing we're going to do
is we're going to go to Safari and
we're going to open this link.
If you set up everything correctly,
we'll have the PHP info
page that we can browse.
I believe that's already pre-installed,
isn't it?
Then we're going to browse the PHP page.
So everybody can probably see
the PHP info page right now.
We're going to switch
over for a demo here,
but we don't have the
password for this machine,
so we can't do that right now.
So we're going to switch ahead.
To editing the
configuration files for PHP.
The configuration files for
PHP are in the ETC directory.
There's a file named phpini,
and there's the phpini.default.
And if you want to take a
look at where these files are,
you can type openetc in the terminal,
and then you can browse
the etc directory.
You want to locate the ini default file.
You'll notice that the
PHP ini file is not there.
Basically,
all the settings in the default
file are the default settings
that we've compiled into PHP.
If you want to make your
own custom settings,
what you'll do is you'll make
a duplicate copy of the ini
default file into PHP ini,
and go and edit that.
And we're going to do exactly
that in the next part.
First thing we're going to
do is we're going to create
a new PHP ini default file.
Oh, OK.
Can we switch over to-- this is our
earlier demo that we found the password.
Can we switch over to demo one?
So this is the PHP configuration file,
or INI file, that we created.
We're showing PHP info about the
PHP installed on this machine here.
Different packages, what's turned on,
what's enabled, what's not enabled.
So we can switch back to slides.
So we're going to create our own
custom PHP configuration file.
And the first thing
we're going to do here,
we're going to set our
execution directory to etc.
The next command we're going
to make a duplicate copy of
the PHP INI default file,
and we're going to name it PHP INI.
What this command does
is it has a "-p" option,
so we're going to preserve all
the options such as the ownership,
the permissions, things like that.
Then the very last statement here,
we're going to open up the read/write
permissions so we can go in and
edit that file and make changes.
So the next thing we're going to do is
we're going to go in and we're going
to open to edit the PHP INI file.
First thing we're going to do
is type in the terminal openetc.
That will open up a window in the
finder so we can browse and locate.
We're going to look around in the finder
window to locate our PHP INI file.
And the next thing we're going to do is
we're going to drop PHP INI into Xcode.
We have a demo of that.
Can we switch over to demo one?
So here we've located INI default,
or INI,
and we're going to drop that into Xcode.
Inside of this file
there's a lot of comments,
so you can learn a lot about what the
different configuration options mean.
We'll switch back over to slides, please.
Now, the ones I wanted to point
out today are these options.
They're ones that I've
changed during my work,
and they're probably ones that
you might want to take a look at.
The memory limit of 8 megabytes is, well,
for some processing tasks,
it might be kind of small.
You might want to bump that up,
depending on what your requirements are.
If you're finding your tasks are halting
because they're running out of memory,
then this is the one you
want to go in and modify.
The next ones, Magic Quotes, GPC.
I like to turn this one off.
I think on a number of configurations,
including ours,
it's turned on by default.
This can be a major source of confusion
if you're just starting working with PHP.
What it does is it will put little
backslashes into all the data your
script receives as from cookies
and from post and get data.
So you probably want to turn this off.
Some people,
they get mistaken and they think, "Oh,
this must be MySQL that's inserting these
slashes," but actually it's happening
because of this option being turned on.
The next thing you might want to
change is the maximum file size.
If you're uploading files and
your testing software allows
you to upload files and they're
larger than two megabytes,
you'll probably want to adjust
this limit to something larger.
And the last thing you want to
do is save and close this file.
So has everybody caught up with me here?
You don't have to go
change these settings,
I just wanted to make you aware of them.
So in case you're working
with PHP or trying it out,
you can go ahead and change those.
The next thing we want to do is
we want to activate the changes.
And basically to do that,
the first thing we're going to
do is we're going to set the
execution directory to etc.
Then we're going to set the permissions
back to what they were before we started.
It will work otherwise.
I like to just keep things the
way they're supposed to be.
I think it's also a security hole to
leave the permissions open so others
can go in and write to your files and
configuration files on your machine.
It's a personal preference of yours.
I'm being a little bit fastidious here,
but that's up to you.
The last statement we're doing here
is we're restarting Apache using
the Apache control statement
that I mentioned earlier.
This does exactly the same
thing as turning on and off the
checkbox for personal web sharing.
You're right.
So we're going to test it out.
So earlier, you would have entered in the
PHP info script in the local host,
which we weren't able to do.
Or no, we were able to do that, actually.
And so to test this out and to
look at our new PHP options,
you can open that script
again using this URL.
And then you can browse
the PHP page in Safari.
Now, what did we just do here?
We located and showed you where the
PHP file initialization files are,
and we edited the configuration files.
Now there are some PHP installers
we wanted to show you.
I have Marc Liyanage here.
If you're familiar or you're a
web developer working with PHP,
you're probably familiar
with his website.
And he's going to show you some
of the more recent installers
that he has available.
So here's Marc.
Thank you, John.
Some of you might have used
my PHP installer packages,
the one I published on my website.
And I basically, I maintain these so that
PHP web developers don't
have to mess with compiling,
linking, make files, all of that stuff.
The difference between my modules
and the one that are included
in Tiger is that mine are always
tracking the official PHP releases.
So whenever the PHP group
releases a new version of PHP 4.0,
they're always tracking
the official PHP releases.
So whenever the PHP group
releases a new version of PHP 4.0,
they're always tracking
the official PHP releases.
So whenever the PHP group releases
a new version of PHP 4.0 or PHP 5.0,
I'm updating it as soon as possible,
usually within a few days.
And these updates sometimes bring
new features and sometimes they bring
pretty important security fixes.
Another difference of my modules is
that they come with a lot of extensions.
Extensions extend the
PHP language with new features,
for example, graphics processing,
XML processing, databases,
additional types of databases,
things like that.
So the website,
if you could switch to Demo Machine 2,
please.
This is what the website looks like.
There are two things
I want to show you here,
the extensions that are added.
The first thing I want to show you
is the available PHP packages here.
You can see that there
is PHP 5 and PHP 4.
Both modules are available
for Apache 1 and Apache 2.
So there is a big mix of modules,
like a matrix,
and you can choose whatever you want.
Usually I say you should use
PHP 5 for all new development,
because PHP 5 added interesting
object-oriented features.
Use PHP 4 if you have to.
The other thing on a website that
might be very interesting for you
is the user support forums up here.
If you go to these forums,
There are lots of people in the
PHP forum where you can get support,
ask questions,
and people are quite helpful there.
So if you could switch back to slides,
please.
As I said,
you have to choose one of the modules.
Just one of the things you
might need to produce PDF files.
My module includes the
PDF lib extensions,
which allows you to create PDF documents.
And there you have two versions.
You have a commercial version
if you bought a license key,
and you have a free version.
So that's another thing
you need to choose.
So I guess if you want to pick a module,
just look through the
instructions on the website,
and you'll find out pretty quickly
what's the right one for you.
The installation packages
when you download it.
This is what you get.
If you could switch back to demo 2,
please.
This is what you get if you
download an installation package.
It's just the regular
installation stuff you know from
Apple and third-party companies.
What this package does,
it does two things.
First,
it installs all of the software onto
your machine into a separate directory.
What this also means is it doesn't
mess with any of Apple's stuff.
So there's always a way to
cleanly remove these packages and
revert to what Apple is shipping.
The second thing the
installation package does,
it enables the module
in Apache configuration.
So what John told you before,
how to basically manipulate
the Apache configuration file,
that is what the package does on itself.
Can we go back to slides, please?
[Transcript missing]
One is there's an extension
in PHP called GD that allows
you to create bitmap images.
I created one that allows
you to create Aqua buttons.
Do some text here.
Pick a color.
And you see it renders the image.
It's a regular PNG image at the end.
You can open it up.
This is pretty useful, for example,
if you have a website and you
would like to create headings and
you have to use a corporate font.
It has to be exactly this font,
so you can render it as bitmaps.
You can just, by changing the image
links in your HTML code,
basically, you can change it,
and a new bitmap image will
be rendered on the fly.
This can be pretty useful,
and you can get pretty fancy
with the graphic effects.
You see this one has
like the glossy look,
it has shadows and everything,
which is pretty hard to
reproduce using just HTML.
The other thing I'm going to show
you is also a graphic example.
It's generating PDFs.
[Transcript missing]
and Zoom in a bit.
You can see that it
really is vector imagery,
it's not bitmaps.
And so this allows you to create high
quality print output from your websites.
Thank you, John.
So right about now,
maybe everybody's thinking
about going to his website.
But please don't go down and
load his installers just yet,
so people can use the network.
Can we switch back to slides, please?
So we're going to go through now
a hands-on session for setting
up and configuring some virtual
websites on your computer.
We're just going to set up one
virtual website and a default one.
And what this will allow you
to do is to do local testing on
your computer rather than testing
on your main server on the web.
There's some great
reasons for doing that.
You know, you get a fast turnaround time.
You're running locally,
so you don't have to run
it across the network,
copy files to a server.
You can do your own
testing on your own laptop.
You don't even need to be connected to
the network to do testing of Apache and
your website on your computer.
So we're going to simulate a
real-world server on your computer,
and we're going to give
it an address like WWDC.
And we're going to put the documents
for that into the library web
server document slash WWDC folder.
There's two parts to this whole thing.
The first thing is setting up
a name for the virtual host.
And the second part is setting up
the Apache servers so it knows how
to recognize the names and map the
requests over to the right directories.
I'm going to keep this little guide
on the screen here so you can follow
along and see where we are in this part.
It's kind of a complicated
part of this lecture.
We'll go through it all pretty slowly.
The first thing we're going to
do is we're going to back up
The first thing we're going to do is
we're going to backup the host file.
To do that, we're going to set the
current directory to ETC.
And then we're going to run this
command to make a duplicate of
the host file on your machine.
The host file is used, for the most part,
on a Mac OS X machine to look
up names and resolve names.
But with NetInfo and other
parts of the operating system,
it works together with them to do that.
So the first thing we're
going to do is back it up.
The next thing we're going to do is
we're going to change the permissions
so we can go in and edit that file.
Has everybody caught up with me?
So the next thing we're going to do
is we're going to open the host file.
And to do that, we're going to type this
command into the terminal,
openetc.
And that's going to open a window
in the finder where we can go and
fish around and find the hosts file.
You'll find a whole bunch
of other files in there.
I'm not going to talk about those today.
We're going to look through the file.
We're going to find hosts and
drag and drop that into Xcode.
and once you have that
file open for editing,
we're going to look for the
line that has local host in it.
And we're going to change that to
[Transcript missing]
No white space, just as shown up there.
You can use spaces or tabs.
Tabs or spaces, they'll both work.
As long as it's all on the
same line and it looks pretty
much like what I have up there,
you'll be fine.
Does anybody else need
this for much longer?
Is that okay?
The next thing we're going to do is
we're going to activate the changes.
Now, here,
we don't have to restart anything
for these changes to come into place.
What we do need to do is I just like to
put the permissions back to the way they
were before because of security reasons,
and I just consider it a good practice.
So the first thing we're going to do
is set the execution directory to etc.
We're going to change the permissions
back to the way they were.
We're basically going to exclude
others from writing to this file.
The next thing we're going to do,
and this is the long part.
I'm very sorry it's very long.
I thought it would be shorter.
But this is the Apache configuration
to add to virtual hosts.
The first line here is
going to write out a file.
And we're using the sudo t command.
I'm not going to get into
specifics of why I'm doing that.
If you want to use bbedit
to write out a file,
all you have to do is save
it in the same directory.
If you know how to do that, great.
Otherwise, you can just type along.
What you need to do here is basically
type in everything you see up here.
The first line is going
to create the file,
this part here.
Name virtual host tells Apache, OK,
we're using virtual hosting,
and we're going to match any name with a
star and use that for virtual host names.
We're going to do lookup with that.
The first section is a
virtual host section.
This is the default virtual host.
If the name isn't
recognized by the system,
it's going to default and use
this as the default virtual host.
The second section is actually
our WWDC example virtual host
that we're going to be using.
Now, to go through the specifics here,
the first virtual host is bracketed
by very HTML-looking tags that
contain all the configuration
information about the host.
If you read up on the
Apache configuration tags,
you can put almost anything for
configuring Apache into that section,
such as server-side includes statements,
enabling PHP processing
inside of HTML pages.
So the first part of this,
this is the name of our local
host and this is the directory
[Transcript missing]
The second virtual host block is the one
that we're actually interested in here.
This is going to be our
configuration for our local host,
or our WWDC example host.
And that's enclosed in
a virtual host block.
And just like before,
you can add all the configuration
statements that you normally
would for a virtual host or
for any web server in there.
The first line is our name, WWDC,
and the second line is our
document directory where we're
going to place our HTML files.
Yeah, that's in the next part.
Is that all done?
So if you're typing
this into the terminal,
the very last thing to do to save it is
hold down the Control key or C-N-T-R-L,
not the Apple key,
and type the letter D or C.
And that will basically end your input.
Is everybody caught up with me or do
I need to wait a little while longer?
Okay, we'll give it another two minutes,
I'll bet.
Now, you can come and talk to me later
if you need details about this.
I'm just going to move on.
If that's OK,
we've got most of everybody.
[Transcript missing]
I put the wrong directory in there.
We're going to have to type
library web server documents WWDC.
I'm very sorry about that.
And the next thing we're going
to have to do is restart Apache.
[Transcript missing]
Thank you.
Okay.
So, the first thing we're going to do is
we're going to create the directory
that we just made reference to.
We're going to pair the
name WWDC together with a
directory on our machine.
So,
this is where we create the directory.
The next thing we're going to do
is we're going to restart Apache so
it reads in our configuration file.
Now, if you made a typing mistake,
you'll notice that Apache is going
to give you an error message,
and it's going to suggest
that you run the config test.
And that will give you more information
about exactly where the error is.
You can go and edit that.
After the session,
I have some slides showing you how
to undo those changes if you need to.
Now we can test our local website.
The first thing we're going to do
is we're going to create a file
to do the testing with inside of
our folder that we just created.
So what we're going to do there is
we're going to go in the terminal
and we're going to set the execution
directory to web server WWDC.
And then we're going to do
the same command as before,
basically, to save a small PHP script
into a file called phpinfo.php.
The next thing we're going to do is
we're going to switch over to Safari,
and we're going to enter
the address http://.
[Transcript missing]
And here we are.
We're looking at WWDC.
I'll go back in a second here.
So there it is running on our machine,
if nothing less,
just to prove that it works.
Can we go back to slides?
This is the slide here.
OK.
I'll just review.
What we're doing here is we're setting
the execution directory for our
commands that we're typing to the new
directory that we just-- or to the new
directory we just created for our host.
The next command,
what we're doing is we're saving
a new web page to that directory
that we're going to display
in Safari in the next command.
This command here,
we're displaying that in Safari,
and we're just taking a look at that.
So we already did the hands-on part,
so I'm going to skip past that.
So what do we do?
We created some virtual
host aliases on our machine,
and we edited the
configuration file for that.
That's the bare minimum that you'd
want to have for doing local testing.
I really like the idea.
It's much better than trying to do
your testing on a live server that
many thousands of people are using.
So, M.P.
on Mac OS X.
Thank you very much for coming.
We talked about MySQL, PHP.
We talked about what's installed.
We went over some
configuration on Apache.
We talked about setting up PHP.
We talked about Marc Liyanage
and his website.
He has installers for the
latest versions of his software.
He does a good job of keeping that up.
And we went over a configuration
for a local website for doing
testing on your machine.
Here's some URLs that we talked
about during this session.